# Docker Data Storage Management
By default the data on containers are stored on a writable container layer and doesn’t persist when that container is no longer running. It’s not so easy to move data somewhere else.
So, docker has two options to store files in the host machine.

1.Volumes and 
2.Bind Mounts

##### Volumes -
Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers. Volumes are stored in a part of the host file system which is managed by Docker. Non-Docker processes shouldn’t modify this part of the filesystem.

Bind Mounts may be stored anywhere on the host system. Non-Docker process on the Docker host or a Docker container can modify them at any time.

Volumes also support the use of volume drivers, which allow you to store your data on remote hosts or cloud providers.

In the enterprise applications, if a container is deleted we would be needing the server, application etc logs for future. So, here Docker Volumes would help us

Create docker volume-
`$docker volume create myvol1`

Listing docker volumes-
`$docker volume ls`

Inspect docker volumes-
`$docker volume inspect myvol1`

Remove volume-
`$docker volume rm myvol1`

Remove all unused volumes-
`$docker volume prune`

Attaching volume explicitly-
`$docker pull Jenkins`
`$docker run -d –-name MyJenkins1 –v myvol1:/var/Jenkins_home –p 8080:8080 –p 50000:50000 jenkins/jenkins:lts-slim`

##### Bind Mount -
- It is same as concept of Volume which is explained above but here we can map the container volume path to base machine’s path.
- Beneficial for development and debugging

- create host volume path and grant user and group permissions
`$mkdir /home/kk/myjenkins_home`
`sudo chown 1000:1000 -R /home/kk/myjenkins_home` #it is must to create the host volume path before attaching it to the container and required user/group permission. Otherwise, docker creates it with root permission and container might not have permission to write data into it.
`$docker run -d –-name MyJenkins3 –v /home/kk/myjenkins_home:/var/Jenkins_home –p 9191:8080 –p 40000:50000 jenkins/jenkins:lts-slim`

#### Diff b/w Volumes and Bind Mount - 
- Management: Volumes are managed by Docker and Bind Mount can be managed by the user
- Location: Volumes are stored in Docker storage area and BM are stored on host machine
- Use case: Best for persistent, portable data managed by Docker. Useful for sharing source code, configs, or logs between host and container.
- Backup/Restore: Volumes are easily managed with Docker CLI. Managed outside Docker, using host tools.
- Isolation: Volumes are not tied to the host filesystem structure. Directly tied to the host filesystem
